VACMS-16409: Update `project-conventions.md` (#16410)
department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms: READMES/project-conventions.md

# Project Conventions

## Naming Conventions:

> * Modules: `vagov_modulename`

Author: This was inaccurate – we do `va_gov_<whatever>`.

> * Content types: `vagov_contentype`

Author: This was inaccurate – we do `<content type>`.

> * Fields: `field_[contenttypename]_fieldname`

Author: This was inaccurate. We don't embed the content type in the name, nor should we.

* Fields: `field_<field name>`, e.g. `field_administration`, `field_alert_dismissable`.
* Services: `<module name>.<service name>`, e.g. `va_gov_content_release.reporter`, `va_gov_benefits.entity_event_subscriber`.

## Tickets

> * The title should be clear and descriptive. Keep in mind that this ticket may contain useful information for years, so make it easy to search for and find.

Author: ```suggestion
* The title should be clear and descriptive. Keep in mind that this ticket may contain useful information for years, so make it searchable.
```

  * Must be **SMART**:
    * **Specific**: List the specific conditions that must be met for the ticket to be considered complete.
    * **Measurable**: Criteria should be quantifiable to avoid ambiguity.
    * **Achievable**: Ensure that the criteria are realistic and attainable.
    * **Relevant**: Criteria should be directly related to the ticket's goal.
    * **Time-Bound**: If applicable, include deadlines or time constraints.
  * If you don't know the acceptance criteria, or cannot satisfy the above conditions, open a discovery ticket to investigate the problem so that you can draft a meaningful ticket that will be more successful at addressing it.
  * `Defect` and `Critical Defect` tickets often come in with no other Acceptance Criteria than something along the lines of "this problem is fixed." These should always be something like "A solution has been identified and implemented as part of this ticket or a followup ticket has been opened to implement the solution." This should allow for reasonable estimation while acknowledging the massive risk inherent in such a ticket.
* A User Story is very helpful for ensuring that we preserve a focus on improving the user experience.

> * Prefer opening multiple small tickets to a single large ticket.

Author: Updated!

  * Smaller tickets are easier to write, easier to test, easier to debug, easier to review, easier to close, and easier to report.
  * The overhead is negligible.
* Use the `Defect` label to identify tickets for issues actively and meaningfully impacting the user experience.
* Use the `Critical Defect` label to identify tickets for issues impacting the user experience to such a degree that they need to be resolved within the current sprint.
  * This will generally also be `Unplanned Work`.
  * This may involve a [Postmortem](./postmortems.md), if only an informal, internal one, if there was a substantial disruption to user experience and there was a "teachable moment".
* Use the `Incident` label to identify tickets for issues impacting the user experience to such a degree that they need to be resolved *immediately*.
  * This will almost always also be `Unplanned Work`.
  * This will often involve a [Postmortem](./postmortems.md) unless the underlying issue was out of the team's control, e.g. an upstream failure causing a service disruption.

>   * This will often be opened *after* the work is done, as engineers are too busy fighting a fire to draft an informed and well-written ticket.

Author: This is a definition of `Defect`, `Critical Defect`, and `Incident` that @edmund-dunn and I and others were tossing around some time back.

  * Write unit tests for functions and methods.
  * Use meaningful variable and function names.
  * Provide clear comments and documentation in code.
  * Prefer self-documenting code to comments about implementation details (which may drift out of sync).
  * Use dependency injection wherever possible; do not instantiate services through `\Drupal::<whatever>` or `\Drupal::service(<whatever>)` calls.
  * Prefer modern object-oriented alternatives like event subscribers and other object-oriented APIs to legacy hook implementations.
  * Refactor when appropriate. You are empowered to improve the design of existing code.

### Theming

* Prefer [BEM (Block, Element, Modifier)](https://getbem.com/introduction/) syntax when possible.
* Prefer CSS custom properties instead of Sass variables.

### Contrib Modules

* If your work depends on a contrib module behaving in a specific way, add automated tests to assure consistency across updates moving forward.
* If functionality for which your team is responsible breaks as a result of a bug added by an update to a contrib module, add automated tests to guard against regressions.

> * Ensure that contrib modules are explicitly listed as dependencies by custom modules that rely on them.

Author: Part of Contrib Module Governance (see #15146), h/t @edmund-dunn

* Do not make unsolicited comments on PRs that do not belong to a member of your team unless you feel it poses a clear and present danger.
  * If you have a suggestion for an alternative approach, or a concern about the ticket or the approach, escalate it to your PM/DM/PO.
* Do not review PRs that do not belong to a member of your team unless your review has been requested.
  * If your review has been requested as a result of code ownership, but the code in question is owned by multiple teams, consider whether your review is necessary or valuable in this context.
  * For example, `config/sync` is massive, messy, and ownership is shared between multiple teams. It is good to be aware of changes to configuration, but it is not necessarily appropriate for *you* to review those changes formally.
* Do not make changes to PRs that do not belong to a member of your team without their consent and approval.
  * Instead, make suggestions, justify them, and allow the owner to approve or reject them.
* Do not merge new changes into PRs that do not belong to a member of your team (excluding Dependabot, etc) without their consent and approval.

> * Do not merge a PR that does not belong to a member of your team without their consent and approval.

Author: I'm not seeing anything in the branch protection settings that looks relevant, sadly.

> * Do not merge a PR that does not belong to a member of your team without their consent and approval.

Author: Yeah, at some point we have to rely on professional conduct 🙂

    * Clear it with the tech lead of your team, and escalate to the PM, DM, and PO.
    * Open a ticket.
  * If you are opening a PR that will close multiple tickets:
    * Consider whether this is necessary or advisable.
    * Consider what repercussions this may have if an issue forces a revert of the entire PR.
* Keep PRs in Draft until they are ready to be reviewed and merged.
  * Do not rely on labels, title prefixes, etc. Only Draft mode mechanically prevents a premature merge.
* Write QA Steps that demonstrate that the PR addresses the Acceptance Criteria of the related ticket.
* If these QA Steps are automatable (and most should be), then consider adding a Cypress test.
* Do not merge a PR with unresolved comments.
* Do not resolve a comment unless you opened it.
* Resolve a comment promptly when it has received a satisfactory response.

## Code Review

* As a reviewer, use [conventional comments](https://conventionalcomments.org/) to signal your intent, e.g. **Nitpick**, **Suggestion (non-binding)**, **Request**, etc.
* Do not make unsolicited comments on PRs that do not belong to a member of your team unless you feel it poses a clear and present danger.

>   * If you have a suggestion for an alternative approach, or a concern about the ticket or the approach, escalate it to your PM/DM/PO.

Reviewer: Though: I'm a little skeptical of this requirement as it may be a little harsh. I understand we want to limit the amount of unhelpful or irrelevant comments but I don't also don't want to add more roadblocks to collaboration which can lead to more siloing of knowledge and expertise. However, there should be the expectation that if you make unsolicited comments, the PR owner is very likely or expected to dismiss or reject the comments.

Author: This is to prevent interference with an engineer that is attempting to address a ticket as it is written.

In other words, if I write a ticket with ACs A, B, and C, we all prefine it and agree that it is fine, we refine it and agree it is fine, and then Engineer Dave takes this on, and then Engineer Frank from another team comes along and says "no no, you don't want to do A, B, and C, you need to do D, E, and F!"

I believe that is inappropriate. If Frank believes that the ticket or PR is taking the wrong approach, I think this is a matter that needs to involve Dave's PO, PM, DM, and TL, and Frank's PM and DM. It will (or should) result in cancelling or rewriting or re-refining a ticket. It's a big deal, in my opinion, and should be mediated.

I don't wish to prevent or inhibit collaboration. I do want to ensure that engineers have space in which to do their work without unwanted interference, especially interference on the level of requirements/definition when they're trying to work on implementation.

Perhaps I can adjust this to where we can have both? Maybe I didn't have the concept clearly defined in my mind when I wrote this. Any suggestions on how I can improve it?

Reviewer: Ah I see, I misunderstood it as only PM/DM/POs are allowed to comment on PRs to suggest alternative approaches. How about updating the wording to this?
```suggestion
  * If you have a suggestion for an alternative approach, or a concern about the ticket or the approach, you must also include your PM/DM/PO in your comment and ensure they approve the modifications to the original ticket or approach.
```

Author: Here are some examples of what I mean:

**Example 1**: Possibly bad ticket.

- Dave's ticket is changing an instruction on a form -- for a particular field.
- Frank sees this and thinks, gee, that wording is really crappy/not clear/not inclusive/etc.
- What's the wording in the original ticket? Well, it's exactly the wording that Dave is trying to use.
- In other words, Dave might move forward to review and merge something bad. Not actively destructive, but not good.
- My opinion is that Frank should raise this to product or delivery peeps in his own team before proceeding.

I don't mean that only a PM/DM can comment, but that this sort of communication needs to at least be cleared by Frank's PM/DM prior to commenting. Otherwise it just seems like interference to me, not collaboration.

**Example 2**: Good ticket, bad approach.

- Dave's ticket includes some kind of algorithm, and his implementation is _O(n^2)_ over a large number of items when it'd be trivial to do it in _O(n)_.
- Frank sees this and thinks, what in the 
- The ticket does not say "Do this in the least efficient way possible."
- In other words, Dave might move forward to review and merge something bad.
- My opinion is that Frank is free to step in and (kindly, politely) suggest a better performing approach without first raising it to PM/DM.

I'd argue that also includes "hey, you can save five LOC by doing X". Ideally, we always love to learn and welcome a tactfully-offered tweak to our technique.

Reviewer: Yes that does clarify it up a lot, thanks. I wanted to make sure we continue to promote the type of discussion illustrated by Example 2.

Author: Well, I'm still not sure if I actually conveyed it meaningfully 🙂
